Mário Bernardo de Barros Gomes

2.6 

The myth of the beaten path.

A girl walked past the two trees standing by the side of a downtrodden road. Two squirrels ate their nuts and stored them on the trees nearby. Birds perched on the broken twigs tossed around were lost, and their nests broken.

“What a sad path.” - said the observant girl, but no one listened.

The trees began to burn under the squirrels dutiful work. The friction of their nuts aginst the oily wood igniting into a seamless white fire of invisible rage. Forcing more and more pressure into their hollowness until they burst, and nature was no more

“What a sad mistake.” - observed the sad girl, and no one was there to listen.

The path that was beaten by the previous pioneers, was beaten to death by those who followed their footsteps into the trees for they only knew what to do and not why.

The myth of the flood.

A cavalry charged through a white cotton field. Endless in its size and formless in its greatness. No one could hear them, so far removed were them from our hardships and toils.

The drums beat to war, sound to the hooves of the horses who smash the ground into submission with their million needles of pure strength. No shout or sword will reach their ears but their stampede is relentless and certain in its reach and devastation. Even where the heaven’s cavalry does not arrive, suffering follows as a dry sickness spreading in our throats.

Their beatings, their chaos, their indiscipline. Is that what we need from the heavens, or what we must learn to avoid? Do we learn from needing them or are we just their slaves? Moon, Oh, bright lady! Call on them so they may ease our lives, or bring the rage of the fallen cavalry over already so we may be cured of anxiety.

And fall, fall they do,
with sun clenched teeth
no longer lost in all blue,
Rallied by their Warchief.
Skyfall.
So the land of the maker
Becomes a lake on demand.

(not copy pasted, original and all written rn)

5.7

Most clients will have an idea of what they want, it is however, very common for them to have much else that they actually need they are either unaware of or need an experts viewpoint to see a connection between their needs and those applications. They want something that might not necessarily be as useful as they think it is, specially given the constantly changing market environment we have today. Flexibility in this aspect is of utmost importance, so the final product will actually serve the interests of the client and the demands of the market.

6.7

With the agile a team works over iterations and have a much more engaging team-environment to work with than the standard. By working with deliverable products in every iteration it is possible to truly see where the project is headed in terms of usability and catering to the needs of the clients. A great deal of flexibility is achieved through this method, a constant lookout for a unforeseen need or market variable can be then evaluated as in need of addressing afete every iteration. And if possible, added as a backlog to the project.
